Bisphosphonates help build stronger bones
and reverse the effects of bone loss.
The body normally manages the rate
bone is formed and broken down,
through two types of cells.
Osteoclasts break down or reabsorb bone,
and Osteoblasts build up new bone.
If Osteoblasts cannot rebuild bone faster than it is broken down,
this can result in weak or thinning bones
which are more likely to fracture or break.
Bisphosphonates help by slowing down the bone reabsorption process
by blocking the target site on bone cells
that are selected for reabsorption.
When Osteoclasts attempt to stick to the bone cells to reabsorb the bone
bisphosphonates prevent the Osteoclasts from sticking to the bone surface
and creating the ruffled border,
the seal between the Osteoclast and bone,
so bone cannot be reabsorbed.
This results in the bone maintaining its strength and density.